
BS20001_Spring21_Test1
Date of Exam: 17th Feb, 2021
Time: 1hr (2:30 pm to 3:30 pm)
Total marks: 40
ONLY ONE correct answer. NO NEGATIVE marking. Choose the BEST possible answer.
Points:
34/40
1
Formation of peptide bond is a
(1/1 Point)
condensation reaction
ligation reaction
oxidation reaction
hydrolysis reaction
2
Which of the following is in correct order of sequence as they happen in a cell:
(1/1 Point)
Transcription, Translation, mRNA Splicing, Protein folding
Transcription, mRNA Splicing, Translation, Protein folding
Transcription, Translation, 5' capping of mRNA, Protein folding
Transcription, Translation, poly-adenylation Protein folding
3
Which of the following best describes a promoter:
(0/1 Point)
A specific DNA sequence to which RNA polymerase binds
An extracellular inducer that controls genes expression
A specific DNA sequence that promotes termination of transcription
A specific DNA sequence from where transcription starts
4
Following is the protein coding part of the DNA sequence of a hypothetical gene: 
5’ ATG GCC TAA TAC TGG TGC ACG ACG TGC GGT GTC TGC ATA TTT TAA 3’
Predict what will happen to the protein product of the gene if you mutate (change) the first codon from ATG into TTG.
(1/1 Point)
No protein will be synthesized
Protein will be produced but its amino acid composition will be changed
Protein length will be unaffected
Protein will be shorter in length
5
Protein secondary structures are stabilized primarily by (chose the best answer)
(1/1 Point)
amino acid sidechains
electrostatic interactions
van der Waal's forces
hydrogen bonds
6
Anfinsen’s experiment showed that
(1/1 Point)
It is easier to win the Nobel Prize in Chemistry by Biochemists
The primary sequence of a protein can be predicted from its three-dimensional structure
The three-dimensional structure of a protein is encoded in its primary sequence
Right combination of disulfide bonds dictate the three-dimensional structure of a protein
7
A new strain of bacteria was isolated from a natural hot water geyser. Comment on the expected DNA base compositions in this thermophilic organism (living in high temperatures).
(1/1 Point)
Equal A+T and G+C composition
Insufficient data
A+T > G+C
G+C > A+T
8
Which of the following amino acids often participate in covalent bond formation through its side chain?
(1/1 Point)
Valine
Glycine
Cysteine
Alanine
9
DNA present in E. coli is
(1/1 Point)
single-stranded, left-handed, linear
double stranded, right-handed, circular
single stranded, right-handed, circular
double stranded, right-handed, linear
10
A genetic analysis of an unknown infectious agent reveals that it contains only nucleotides G, A, U and C, in the proportion 30%, 35%, 15% and 20%, respectively. Based on this information, this infectious agent is most likely
(1/1 Point)
single-stranded RNA virus
not enough information is provided
double-stranded DNA virus
single-stranded DNA virus
11
Backbone of DNA and RNA is covalently linked through ----------- and is ------------------- in nature.
(1/1 Point)
phosphoester, hydrophilic
phosphoester bond, hydrophobic
phosphodiester bond, hydrophobic
phosphodiester bond, hydrophilic
12
In Sanger DNA sequencing technique, ddNTP (analogue of dNTP) is used that can terminate DNA synthesis when they get incorporated. How does that happen?
(1/1 Point)
ddNTPs are bulky molecules
ddNTPs are positively charged
In ddNTPs 3’OH group is changed to –H group
ddNTPs have ribose sugar instead of deoxyribose
13
100 template DNA molecules are PCR amplified for 25 cycles in a 100 µl reaction mixture. How many amplified products will be there in 0.01 µl of solution after amplification?
(1/1 Point)
14
A 990 nucleotide long Eukaryotic nascent mRNA has a 60 nucleotide long intron. But the mature mRNA available for translation is found to be 1100 nucleotide long. What may have caused the increased length of the mature mRNA?
(0/1 Point)
Poly-A tailing
Reverse transcription
5’ capping
Splicing
15
Which one of the following statements is incorrect?
(1/1 Point)
Lagging strand is synthesized from 3’ to 5’ direction
Leading strand is synthesized from 5’ to 3’ direction
Lagging strand requires more primers than leading strand during replication
Okazaki fragments are observed during lagging strand synthesis
16
Which sugar is found in RNA?
(1/1 Point)
Pentose
Fructose
Deoxyribose
Lactose
17
The nucleotides in DNA and RNA have three components: a sugar group, a nitrogenous base, and a phosphate group. Adjacent nucleotides in a nucleic acid are joined by a phosphodiester bond. This bond links the phosphate group of one nucleotide to which one of the following components of a neighbouring nucleotide?
(1/1 Point)
Sugar
Phosphate
Base
Others
18
Hemoglobin and RNA polymerase are examples of
(1/1 Point)
Two of the most complex proteins present in our body.
Quaternary structures of protein
Tertiary structures of protein
Proteins that are available in all of our cells
19
In an alien species, there are only 2 types of nucleotides (instead of 4 types in humans) but codons are 4 nucleotide long. If each type of codon specifies one unique amino acid, how many possible amino acids can be coded. Also consider that they have only one stop codon.
(1/1 Point)
15
63
7
31
20
In a folded protein, the nonpolar (hydrophobic) amino acids tend to be
(0/1 Point)
hidden inside the protein
exposed on the outside of the protein
distributed randomly throughout the protein
cannot be predicted
21
Peptide backbone has three torsion angles namely omega, phi and psi. However, Ramachandran map ignores one of these and plots only two. Which of the following statements gives the CORRECT reasoning for this.
(1/1 Point)
Historically only two torsion angles were discovered at that time. Hence, Ramachandran and his student used only those two torsion angles for the map.
One of the torsion angles is part of the peptide plane and in most cases has only one value. Hence, unnecessary to plot.
A two-dimensional plot can be made using only two variables. Hence one of the angles was ignored.
It does not matter which two torsion angles are used to create the Ramachandran map. The same map can be created by choosing any two of the three torsion angles.
22
What is the nature of the interaction between tRNAs and mRNAs at the translation site?
(1/1 Point)
Electrostatic interaction
Hydrophobic interaction
Hydrogen bond
Covalent bond
23
Theoretically, a vast number of different proteins can be assembled from 20 different amino acids. How many polypeptide chains are possible that are 10 amino acids long?
(1/1 Point)
24
Which one of the following statements is correct?
(1/1 Point)
5’ end of nascent eukaryotic mRNA acquires a poly A tail
Transcription and translation occurs in the same cellular compartment in eukaryotes
Splicing removes introns from eukaryotic transcripts
Poly-A tailing of mRNA is a template dependent synthesis
25
RNA is chemically less stable than DNA, because of
(1/1 Point)
the uracil base instead of the thymine
the presence of the 2’-OH group
the extra carbon atom
All of the above
26
In an experiment, it was found that the value of Tm for a DNA sample is = 70° C. If that DNA sample has 45% GC at the above Tm, then what will be the value of 'Tm' if the GC% increases to 55%?
(1/1 Point)
Increases
Decreases
Can’t be predicted
Remains same
27
Metal ions such as Na+, K+ and Mg2+ interact with the following of DNA
(0/1 Point)
Nitrogenous base
Sugar group
Phosphate group
All of the above
28
What is a protein domain?
(1/1 Point)
A multi-subunit protein complex
Part of a protein folded into a self-contained 3D structure
An unfolded part of a protein
The α-helical or β-pleated sheet portion of a protein
29
Glycine and alanine contain ______ and_______ chiral centre(s) respectively
(1/1 Point)
0, 1
1, 0
1, 2
1, 1
30
In alpha helix and beta sheets, the hydrogen bonds are
(0/1 Point)
perpendicular to the helical axis and perpendicular to the beta strands
parallel to the helical axis and perpendicular to the beta strands
perpendicular to the helical axis and parallel to the beta strands
parallel to the helical axis and parallel to the beta strands
31
Arrange the following options in increasing order of protein structure hierarchy:
A: alpha-helix
B: amino acid sequence 
C: quaternary structure
D: folded structure
(1/1 Point)
B, A, D, C
B, C, A, D
A, C, B, D
A, B, C, D
32
What will be the transcript (i.e. RNA) of this gene (coding strand is underlined)?
(1/1 Point)
5’ U A C C C C C G C A U U 3’
3’ A U G G G G G C G U A A 5’
5’ A U G G G G G C G U A A 3’
3’ U A C C C C C G C A U U 5’
33
One undergrad student is repeating Anfinsen's experiment with an enzyme that has TEN cysteine residues and forms FIVE disulfide bonds. What is the total number of possible disulfide bond combinations that can be formed randomly in the denatured protein?
(1/1 Point)
225
945
45
105
34
In lac operon, if you remove the lac operator (the repressor binding site), what will be the effect on the metabolic state of the bacteria?
(1/1 Point)
RNA Polymerase will not be able to bind the promoter
Lactose metabolizing enzymes will be produced irrespective of the presence or absence of lactose
Glucose metabolism will be blocked
Lactose will never be metabolized because the enzymes will never be synthesized
35
A tripeptide has
(0/1 Point)
3 amino acids and 3 peptide bonds
6 amino acids and 3 peptide bonds
3 amino acids and 2 peptide bonds
4 amino acids and 3 peptide bonds
36
During transcription, RNA polymerase reads the template DNA strand in:
(1/1 Point)
5’- 3’ direction
3’- 5’ direction
in both directions
does not require a DNA template
37
Which of the following chemicals would you add in a protein sample in order to eliminate the disulfide bonds?
(1/1 Point)
H2O2, an oxidizing reagent
SDS, an ionic detergent
NaCl, a salt
DTT, a reducing agent
38
In classic Sanger DNA sequencing technique, four types of ddNTPs are used along with the normal dNTPs. Which of the following is the correct combination?
(1/1 Point)
Each tube will have one type of ddNTP and all four types of dNTP
Each tube will have one type of dNTP and all four types of ddNTP
All four ddNTPs and four dNTPs in same reaction tube
Each tube with one type of ddNTP and one type of dNTP (e.g., ddATP + dATP in tube 1, ddGTP + dGTP in tube 2 and so on)
39
Choose the enzyme that is not composed of protein:
(1/1 Point)
DNA ligase
Peptidyl transferase
RNA polymerase
DNA polymerase
40
The coding region of a gene is 102 nucleotides long, including both start and stop codons. Which of the following would be the most likely effect of a single nucleotide deletion at position 76 in the coding region?
(1/1 Point)
There would be changes only in the first 25 amino acids
There would be changes only after the first 25 amino acids
The entire amino acid sequence of the polypeptide would change
There would be no effect on the polypeptide
This content is created by the owner of the form. The data you submit will be sent to the form owner. Microsoft is not responsible for the privacy or security practices of its customers, including those of this form owner. Never give out your password.
Powered by Microsoft Forms
| Privacy and cookies
| Terms of use
